Sumit Bamane
DevOps Engineer
+91 8422 806720
sumitdb97@gmail.com
Mumbai, India

Objective
I am looking forward to working in an organization that provides an environment for growth,
with competent and strong leaders in Cloud and DevOps technologies. I am eager to work with
various AWS services such as EC2, VPC, RDS, S3, IAM, and Route 53, as well as CI/CD tools.
Additionally, I have a strong inclination for learning recent technologies and maintain a strong
work ethic, combined with a commitment to excellence in all projects I undertake.


Professional Summary
3+ years of experience as an Associate DevOps Engineer - eTechno Lab March 2022 – Present
Good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and Agile methodologies.
Worked on Agile methodology and participated in scrum meetings.
Hands on experience on AWS services like EC2, S3, RDS, Auto scaling, ELB, VPC, IAM, Cloud
Front, Cloud Trail, S3, Cloud Watch, SNS
Worked on SCM with the help of GIT and GITHUB, created branches, tags and have done
access control.
Worked on Jenkins pipeline and freestyle jobs.
Worked on Jenkins File and multi branch pipeline jobs.
Implemented tools and processes to improve delivery to customers.
Good knowledge of Docker and Kubernetes.
Good understanding of Build Automation tool i.e. Maven.
Maintain and leverage Configuration/Systems Management tools such as Ansible.
Participate in architecture planning sessions with development team.
Frequent use of shell scripting language
Linux Administration includes the provisioning and maintenance of Linux servers in
production and development environments.
Good communication, collaboration with proficiency at grasping new technical concepts
quickly and utilize the same in a productive manner.
Self-motivated, Pro-Active, and Quick learner of new concepts and technologies.
Supported various environments such as DEV, QA, UAT, PRE-PROD as well as performance
environments.
Having knowledge in Kubernetes Tool.
Determine the priority for test scenarios and create execution plans to implement these
scenarios.


Projects
MDeverywhere Domain - Health Care
Roles and Responsibilities:
Worked on daily builds and deployments on DEV, QA, and UAT Env’s.
Making sure the Env’s are up and running for testing purposes.
Creating and maintaining AWS Infra.
Creating Jenkins CI/CD pipeline for all the branches.
Source code management of both development team and also for QA framework in GIT.
Providing access to users in SCM and artifactory.
Creating and Maintaining EC2 machines, creating AMI, and EBS snapshots.
Setting up an Application Load balancer for QA env.
Infrastructure monitoring with the help of CloudWatch and CloudWatch logs.
Setting up SNS topics for Email.
Setting up DNS for UAT Environments using Route 53.
Copying server logs onto S3 for backup, also maintaining S3 data lifecycle.
Using CloudFront for low latency URLs.
Creating IAM groups, roles, and policies.
Creating CloudTrail for monitoring user activity for compliance purposes.
Creating Mysql DB in RDS and also maintaining its backups, and read-replicas.
Created VPC peering connections between QA and UAT networks for private subnets.

Skills
Linux
Git & GitHub
Bash
Shell Scripting
AWS
EC2
VPC
S3
IAM
SQL
YAML
Agile
Scrum
Maven
Jenkins
Docker
Ansible
Terraform
Kubernetes
RDS Aurora
JIRA
Blockchain
Leadership
Quick Learner
Team Player
Problem Solving
Communication
Negotiation
Interpersonal
Result Oriented

Education
Bachelor of Engineering
University of Mumbai - 2022

Languages
English - Hindi - Marathi - German - Japanese

